an incredible record was set during a
rescue operation in
ethiopia on may 21 1991.
the boeing 747 was about to take well
over 1 000 passengers on board
naturally it wasn't a comfortable flight
with all the business class birds
all the seats in the plane were removed
to accommodate this colossal crowd
guinness world records put the official
number at 1088
but other sources say between 1078
and 1122 passengers boarded that plane
hard to get an exact head count when
you're squeezing as many people as you
can
into an aircraft one thing certain when
this rescue plane arrived at its
destination
there were two more passengers on board
than when it took off
yep two babies were born during the four
hour flight
the boeing 747 model used for the
record-breaking flight
usually seats just over 600 meaning it
would normally take
two of these planes to transport all
those passengers
the original plan was to load only 760
people on board
but the refugees had no luggage at all
and each person didn't take up much
space
this allowed the plane to accommodate a
record number of people
it was the busiest flight ever and the
record remains
uncontested to this day but that was
back in 91
could the largest airplane in the world
today break this record
and airbus a380 could it can accommodate
a maximum of 853 passengers plus crew
you wouldn't even have to remove the
seats at least not all of them
now imagine being the only passenger on
a commercial airplane
this happened to vincent peony on his
flight from aspen colorado to salt lake
city utah
when peony was waiting at the boarding
gate he heard an unusual announcement
will the only passenger on this flight
kindly boarded this
time at first he couldn't believe it was
true
but then he boarded the bombardier crj
and saw that it really was empty this
plane is designed for about 80
passengers
but now it turned into his own private
jet
one of the pilots even joked to him
about that airport workers had to load
the plane's luggage compartment with
sandbags to imitate the usual weight
needed
the aircraft taxi to the runway engines
ready for takeoff
but it ended up turning back around
because of some mechanical issues
so peony was almost his own one-man
flight
tough luck they're still the world's
smallest jet it's a bd5
micro and it accommodates only one
person the pilot
it's just 13 feet long and weighs about
350 pounds
to put that in perspective the world's
longest and heaviest airplane
is the boeing 747.8 you could line up 20
bd5s on it
and you'd still need 2785 of them to
reach the same weight
but this teeny thing is still a
full-fledged jet it can fly 230 miles
per hour over distances of up to 900
miles
it could get you from san francisco to
seattle in three and a half hours
or if you don't like spending that much
time in the air there's the world's
shortest flight 1.7 miles between the
scottish islands of west ray
and papa westray the flight lasts 57
seconds
and a ticket costs about 50 bucks um
probably no meal service either
another record holder for passenger
capacity is the symphony of the sea's
cruise ship
it's longer than three football fields
and can accommodate a maximum of 6680
passengers
plus a crew of 2200 it's like the
population of a small town
but this thing is a city on the water 22
restaurants
four pools a water park ice skating rink
and a broadway style theater there are
even two robot bartenders
this masterpiece of shipbuilding costs
about 1.3 billion dollars to make
the mumbai suburban railway is one of
the busiest in the world
it carries roughly seven and a half
million people every day
more than all the passenger traffic in
the entire uk
over the same period and even though
this railway has over two thousand
trains
they still don't have enough capacity so
it often happens that people just don't
ride inside the cars
but on top of the train or hanging onto
the side as well
this earns the railway another title of
the most dangerous on the planet
japan's shinjuku station is the most
crowded in history
it serves as a connecting hub for five
stations and has a total of 53
platforms it serves over three and a
half million people daily
more than the entire population of
uruguay
for more introverted souls the national
railway of mauritania
is the loneliest in the world it
consists of just
one route 435 miles long like one end of
pennsylvania to the other
and it runs right through the sahara
desert the trains are some of the
longest and heaviest in the world
200 cars stretching for up to two miles
it's technically a freight train but it
also carries passengers
they aren't sitting in comfortable seats
and air conditioning
they ride on top of the freight cars not
as fun as it sounds though
it's uncomfortable dusty noisy daytime
temperatures go past 100 degrees
fahrenheit
and plummet at night still this route
attracts plenty of adventurous tourists
every year one odd record for vehicle
capacity was set in russia in 2005.
41 people managed to fit in a
medium-sized suv
were they going to a drive-in movie the
rules for breaking such a record are
quite strict
you're not allowed to fold or remove the
seats all windows must be closed
and the height of all participants must
be at least five feet
doesn't say anything about not folding
up a participant
the russian students were able to meet
all the requirements
and broke the previous world record of
38 people in a car
and many of them liked each other
several couples had a crush
and here's a car that only fits one
person it's the peel
p50 listed in the guinness world records
as the smallest production car ever made
it's just four and a half feet long and
a little over three feet wide
it weighs less than most adults only 130
pounds
instead of a reverse gear it had a
handle that you could physically pull
the car by
just like a suitcase on wheels there are
currently about 27 of these cars still
around a day
one of them sold at auction for more
than 170 thousand dollars
you could get yourself a decent house
for that price
the world's longest bicycle is a tandem
for not
two or three but 20 people it was built
in australia in 2015.
to set the world record this monster had
to travel at least 328 feet
so 20 enthusiasts started pedaling with
all their might
and were able to successfully cover the
distance the length of this bike is 135
feet which is much more than the longest
limousine in the world
um that would be the 100 foot long
american dream limo
hey i knew you would ask about it now
let's compare that to the smallest bike
in the world
a guy named bobby made an unusual bmx
with his father
it was three inches long and seven
inches tall
you'd have to line up 540 of them to
reach the length of that super long
tandem
the wheels of this bite-size bmx were
the size of a silver dollar
and the pedals were just wide enough to
fit two toes
but it was a fully functioning rideable
bike that you could put in your pocket